Documentation link chai code: https://docs.chaicode.com/youtube/chai-aur-git/introduction/

1. Git is a version control software and github is the host or container of the git.
2. So git is a software and github is the service used to host git online.
3. If our software is working good in one set up and condition, then we can set a checkpoint using git in the
   software to guide us back to the same checkpoint if anything is not working with modifications.
4. In git we have version control system which tracks our files and also it sets checkpoints in code for us.

Git and Github are different:

Git is a version control system that is used to track changes to your files. It is a free and open-source 
software that is available for Windows, macOS, and Linux. Remember, GIT is a software and can be installed on 
your computer.

Github is a web-based hosting service for Git repositories. Github is an online platform that allows you to store
and share your code with others. It is a popular platform for developers to collaborate on projects and to share
code. It is not that Github is the only provider of Git repositories, but it is one of the most popular ones.

5. There are other version control softwares like git which are svn, cvs, perforce, mercury etc.

GIT TERMINOLOGIES:

1. To check the version of git we have the command git --version
2. In git the folders are called as repositories.
3. So the git folder or repositories start with a name .git
4. TO check the git folders present we can have the command git status
5. Git also saves our info in the tracking so that whenever we do something then it can track who did
   the changes and also it is easy to track in online i.e in github.
6. Let's set ourselfs up in git by using this command: git cofig --global user.email "your-email-id"
7. Here global is used to set up this for all repositories.  But we can also customize it by using our
   different config instead of global.
8. To check our existing configs we can use command: git config --list
9. We can have our username or any name set in git for tracking using command: git config --global user.name "name"
10. Now to create our first git repo we will use command git init. 
11. But before using git init we need to do git status to check whether we have any git repo before or not.
12. If we have then we don't need to create a new repo as there can be a chance that it can erase the previous 
    git repo mappings.
13. Now mostly the .git folder is hidden. TO check the hidden folder in cmd we can use git bash and command is:
    ls -la
14. We can go inside the .git floder and check the file and folders inside it.
15. Now git has basic highlevel structure as write -> add -> commit
16. In write we write our codes. 
17. Then we add our codes to push to the github service area where we can save our repo online.
18. The command is git add (filename) or (.) for all filenames
19. Once we do this all our changes or codes are staged or we can say then come to the stage in our play
    and ready to do the performance. Hence it is called staging area.
20. Now we do git commit with a message or checkpoint identifier by command
    git commit -m "commit message".
21. This will add checkpoint on the files or changes added in the git add.
22. We can call it as a group of ppl came on to stage for dancing but we have asked a set of ppl only to dance
    first. Let's say in DID we have 4 groups on the stage and we have asked the group 1 to dance.
    So group1 will have a performance and they can call it with a name say may be Shiv tandav. So the performance
    of group1 they are doing now is saved with a checkpoint Shiv tandav.
23. Now we use git push -u origin branch name and push that change or performance into our branch with the checkpoint given.
    Here we can call the branch as episode of the show. We sabe it into the github.
24. We can use git status basically after every command to check what happened due to the command and where are we now.
25. we can use use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage any file.
26. In git once we commit, we can have multiple commits to be pushed at a time.
27. To check what are the commits we can use command git log.
28. But git log gives a long detailed info which might be confusing sometimes, hence we will use
    some extra in git log command as --oneline. So command will be git log --oneline
29. Git by default don't track any empty folders. But if we have an empty folder which will have data
    or info later on and we want it to be tracked then we keep a file named .gitkeep inside that folder
    so that git will track that empty folder.
30. If we want some file or folder to not to be tracked we can put them under .gitignore


BRANCHING:

1. Git has a head entity which points to the current branch.
2. To know which branch we are in we can check with a command: git branch
3. To create a new branch we can use command: git branch <branch name>
4. Once we create a new branch we can check in .git head fiolder that there is a new object with new branch name.
5. Now with the previous command we can create a new branch, but we are still in our previous branch.
6. To change or switch branch we can have command: git swith <branch name>
7. Now let's add a file named fixes.txt in the new branch bug-fix and then commit that file.
8. Now let's switch the branch back to master.
9. Once we switch back to master interestingly the new file fixes.txt we have created in the bug-fix 
   branch is gone. Becz we are in different branch. Just like 2 different timeline we saw in Loki movie.
   Hence we don't see the files of other branch(es) in our churrent branch and will only see the files belong
   to current branch.
10. Now there is a direct option to not only create a new branch but also to switch to that branch.
    The command is: git switch -c <branch name>
11. Here it checks if the branch exists then it will switch us to the branch else it will create the new branch
    and switch.
12. If we have an already existing branch and we just want to move tho that branch then we can use the command:
     git checkout <branch name>.
13. But this command will not work if the branch name given is not present.
14. Now we can see the graph of our git by installing extension git graph.
15. Now if we want to merge two branches, then we will go to the branch to which we want to 
    merge another branch. For example let's say we want to merge our changes of bug-fix branch
    to master branch. So we will come to master branc where we need to get or accept the changes.
    Then we will put command: git merge bug-fix
    This will merge all the files of bug-fix to master branch


BRANCH MERGING:

1. There could be a scenario when we have some work going on in the master branch and
   symultaneously some work is going on in the bug-fix branch. So then at one point we
   have to merge them. This is a tricky scenario.
2. Here while merging we will have conflicts.
3. So here we will merge with a message:  git merge bug-fix -m "Merge to master"


BRANCH MERGING WITH CONFLICTS:

1. Now we can check how to merge 2 branches where we have conflicts.
2. For example we have one file that is common in both the branches and we are making
   changes to that file in both the branches and committed. 
3. Now once we are done and we want to merge both the branches then conflict occurs.
4. We can then open the resolve in merge editor window option.
5. Once we make the changes we can click on complete merge with merge message.
6. This thing is easy with one file. But with multiple files things are difficult.